# PR#226: Improve test-code-coverage to fix failing JaCoCo check

## The Problem

The JaCoCo test coverage verification failed because several recently added or changed production classes were not properly covered by unit tests.
This made otherwise unrelated branches fail the build quality gate.


## The Cause

We currently have no CI/CD pipeline and missed to run all checks for previous PRs.

## The Solution

### Improve Test-Code-Coverage

Some classes and methods had bad test-code-coverage, but were unused, this got removed:

- class `AuthenticatedHttpServletRequestWrapper`
- method `HsAccountEntity.validatePasswordHash`.

Unit-Tests for classes with bad test-code-coverage got implemented.

The jacoco-test-code-coveragae now just considers pure unit-tests (...UnitTest, ...RestTest + AchitectureTest),
which are all decently fast.

You can just run `./gradlew jacocoTestReport`, on my machine it takes about 2min.
Or `./gradlew jacocoTestReport` for just the unit-tests.

### Installed a CI Pipeline

See [PR#229](https://dev.hostsharing.net/hostsharing/hs.hsadmin.ng/pulls/229).

## Additional Changes

- `LdapArgon2Hash` was marked as a Lombok utility class because it only exposes static behavior.

- Spotless formatting was applied to some files;
  this includes asterisk ('*') imports to be replaced by single imports.

- Most of the tests were generated by agentic AI, the utilized AI Agent Config was added to the repo.

- Sourcing .tc-environment is not necessary anymore.
  I found a way to pass parameters to Liquibase, and now all tests work with a clean environment.

- `/bin` got renamed to `tools` because `/bin` is in `.gititnore`
  because it's the default output dir of some IDEs for internal compilation.

- The setup instructions in the `README.md` got updated.

- Log events("started", "failed") when running the tests to be able to watch progress in CI.

## Verification

With the changes in this PR, `gw jacocoTestCoverageVerification` passes again after all tests had run.

This can be tested by running `gw-test --all --rerun` locally.
